The following instructions have been tested on [http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ Ubuntu 11.10.] They should apply to other similar systems with little to no modifications. 

==Download SU from CWP website==
In what follows Seismic Unix will be downloaded and installed into the current user's home directory. It is possible to install SU globally using ​{{bash|sudo}}​ if necessary. However, this is not recommended because iIt is possible to damage a system's file structure if the install is not done properly. First, download the compressed tar-ball and unpack it to the home directory.
<source lang="bash">
mkdir -p ~/cwp/43R1
cd ~/cwp/43R1
wget ftp://ftp.cwp.mines.edu/pub/cwpcodes/cwp_su_all_43R1.tgz
tar -zxvf cwp_su_all_43R1.tgz
</source>

==Add new variables to the shell environment==

Add new path variables to the configuration file and make the new settings active. To do that, include the following two lines into the file {{code|~/.bashrc}} using your favorite text editor such as emacs:
<pre>
export CWPROOT=~/cwp/43R1
export PATH=$PATH:~/cwp/43R1/bin
</pre>
or type in the terminal:
<source lang="bash">
echo "export CWPROOT=~/cwp/43R1" >> ~/.bashrc
echo "export PATH=$PATH:~/cwp/43R1/bin" >> ~/.bashrc
</source>
Make the changes active by issuing a command
<source lang="bash">
source ~/.bashrc
</source>

== Edit the SU configuration file ==

Edit the file {{bash|$CWPROOT/src/Makefile.config}} to agree with the needs of your system. It should suffice to simply comment out the parts that are for Solaris.

<pre>
Here is an example for Ubuntu 11.10 contributed by Jose Colmenares. I have changed this to include XDR,
though Jose's original Makefile.config did not have SUXDR set.



#=======================================================================
#                 Makefile.config for Ubuntu 11.10
#=======================================================================
#-----------------------------------------------------------------------
# pick up the Make rules (Gnu make required)
#-----------------------------------------------------------------------

include $(CWPROOT)/src/Rules/gnumake.rules
include $(CWPROOT)/src/Rules/abbrev.rules
include $(CWPROOT)/src/Rules/cflags.rules
include $(CWPROOT)/src/Rules/suffix.rules
include $(CWPROOT)/src/Rules/misc.rules
include $(CWPROOT)/src/Rules/opengl.rules

#-----------------------------------------------------------------------
#                      CWP feature options
#-----------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# LINEHDRFLAG=SU_LINEHEADER  - adds 3200 byte text & 400 byte SEG-Y 
#                              style line headers to output. CWP/SU
#                              always reads either format unless SUXDR
#                              has been selected.


#
# XDRFLAG=-DSUXDR            - forces all SU data to be big endian
#                              independent of processor architecture
#
# LARGE_FILE_FLAG            - controls access to files > 2 GB on
#                              some systems.
#
# -DSLTSU_SEGY_H             - if defined selects SLT/SU trace header
#                              layout so both packages are compatible
#-----------------------------------------------------------------------

LINEHDRFLAG = 
XDRFLAG =  -DSUXDR
ENDIANFLAG = -DCWP_LITTLE_ENDIAN
LARGE_FILE_FLAG = -D_FILE_OFFSET_BITS=64 -D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE

CWP_FLAGS = $(LARGE_FILE_FLAG) $(ENDIANFLAG) $(XDRFLAG) $(LINEHDRFLAG)

#-----------------------------------------------------------------------
# system stuff
#-----------------------------------------------------------------------


SHELL = /bin/sh
ROOT = $(CWPROOT)

LN = ln # this needs to be changed to cp for FAT32 filesystems
AR = ar
ARFLAGS = rv
RANLIB = ranlib
RANFLAGS = 
ICHMODLINE = chmod 644 $@
MCHMODLINE = chmod 755 $@

POSTLFLAGS = 

#-----------------------------------------------------------------------
# use both X11 path conventions
#-----------------------------------------------------------------------

IX11 = /usr/X11/include
LX11 = /usr/X11/lib
IMOTIF = /usr/X11R6/include
LMOTIF = /usr/X11R6/lib

LD_LIBRARY_PATH += $(CWPROOT)/lib:${LX11}:${LMOTIF}

#-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CPP = cpp

CC = gcc
OPTC = -g  -std=c99 -Wall -pedantic -Wno-long-long 
CFLAGS = -I$I $(OPTC) $(CWP_FLAGS) -D_BSD_SOURCE -D_POSIX_SOURCE

FC = gfortran
FOPTS = -g 
FFLAGS = $(FOPTS) -ffixed-line-length-none

C++FLAGS = -I$I $(OPTC) $(CWP_FLAGS)

</pre>

== Install the desired components ==

=== Install the basic set of codes===
<source lang="bash">
cd $CWPROOT/src
make install
</source>

===Install the X-toolkit applications===
<source lang="bash">
make xtinstall
</source>
If you get an error that {{bash|xlib.h}} is missing, then you probably need to install X:
<source lang="bash">
sudo apt-get install libx11-dev
</source>

If you get an error that {{bash|Intrinsic.h}} is missing, then you need another library that can be installed with:
<source lang="bash">
sudo apt-get install libxt-dev
</source> 

===Install the Fortran codes===
First, install a Fortran compiler by either typing
<source lang="bash">
sudo apt-get install gfortran
</source>
or by [http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=gfortran downloading it] directly from the Ubuntu website.
<source lang="bash">
make finstall
</source>

=== Install Mesa/Open GL (experimental)===
<source lang="bash">
make mglinstall
</source>
If you get the error saying that {{bash|Glut.h}} is missing then install it by typing
<source lang="bash">
sudo apt-get install freeglut3-dev
</source>
If you get the errors
<pre>
/usr/bin/ld: cannot find -lXmu
</pre>
or
<pre>
/usr/bin/ld: cannot find -lXi
</pre>
be sure to install {{bash|libxmu-dev}} and {{bash|libxi-dev}} with
<source lang="bash">
sudo apt-get install libxmu-dev libxi-dev
</source>

===Install {{bash|libswputils}} (not essential)===
<source lang="bash">
make utils
</source>
If you get an error then try
<source lang="bash">
sudo apt-get install libc6
</source>

===Install Motif (not essential)===
<source lang="bash">
make xminstall
</source>
If you get the error of missing {{bash|xm.h}} then check for dependencies first:
<source lang="bash">
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libmotif4
sudo apt-get install libxt6
sudo apt-get install x11proto-print-dev
sudo apt-get install libmotif-dev
</source>
===Install improved SEGDREAD===
<source lang="bash">
make sfinstall
</source>

==Test the installation==

Execute the following command in the terminal:
<source lang="bash">
suplane | suximage title="My first test" &
</source>
If a figure appears then the installation has been done correctly.

{{SU install}}

[[Category:Linux]]