This page is intended to be a generic workflow for how to manually install Seismic Unix from Source on a modern Linux System. Specific instructions on [[Seismic Unix install on Ubuntu|installing Seismic Unix on Ubuntu]] are also available. Archlinux users [[Seismic Unix install on Archlinux|may install Seismic Unix]] directly from AUR.

==How to get it== 

You can download the latest version of the source code from [http://www.cwp.mines.edu/cwpcodes/ The CWP Website] or type in a terminal window:
<source lang=bash>wget ftp://ftp.cwp.mines.edu/pub/cwpcodes/cwp_su_all_43R1.tgz</source>

==Prepping==

===Untar===
You need to select where you want to install for this page lets say you want to use /opt/cwp/42/ for this page.

<source lang=bash> 
tar -xvf cwp_su_all_43R1.tgz -C /opt/cwp/43R1/
</source>

===Setting Environment Variables===
These Instructions are specific to bash, if your a csh or tsh guy some modification might be needed.

====CWPROOT====
$CWPROOT needs to be set to the directory where you untarred the code.


<source lang=bash>
export CWPROOT=/opt/cwp/43R1
</source>


====PATH====

You need to add $CWPROOT/bin to your systems working shell path 

<source lang=bash>
export PATH=$PATH:$CWPROOT/bin
</source>

====.bashrc====

Adding the above variables to .bashrc should allow you to actually use Seismic Unix next time you start a console window.
Think of it like adding it to the startup routine

<source lang=bash>

echo "export CWPROOT=/opt/cwp/43R1" >> ~/.bashrc
echo "export PATH=$PATH:$CWPROOT/bin" >> ~/.bashrc
</source>

===Required Packages===

list of packages

Redhat Example

<source lang=bash>
yum install gcc gcc* libx* openmotif openmotif* freeglut-devel
</source>


====Ubuntu====

[[11.10]]
<source lang=bash>

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libx11-dev libc6 freeglut3-dev gfortran libmotif4 libxt6 x11proto-print-dev libmotif-dev

</source>

===Modifying the Makefile===

Auto Configure might be coming, on Centos 5 I had to change c++ and cc to g++ and gcc. With Ubuntu I was able to install with no changes.
you can find these settings in Makefile.config


==Compiling==

The Main Install Requirements

<source lang=bash>
cd $CWPROOT/src
make install
make xtinstall
make finstall 
make mglinstall
make utils
make xminstall
make sfinstall
</source>


==Testing the install==

<source lang=bash>
suplane | suximage title="My First Plot"
</source>


{{SU install}}

[[Category:Linux]]